ECS Docs Refresh (#972)
spatialos/gdk-for-unity: docs/reference/workflows/ecs/interaction/authority.md

# ECS: Authority

<%(Callout message="
Before reading this document, make sure you are familiar with:

* [Authority in SpatialOS](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/concepts/interest-authority#authority-also-known-as-write-access)
* [Understanding read and write access](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/design/understanding-access)
")%>

Authority is how SpatialOS represents which worker instances can write to each specific [SpatialOS component]({{urlRoot}}/reference/glossary#spatialos-component).

## How authority is represented

For every [SpatialOS component]({{urlRoot}}/reference/glossary#spatialos-component) on a SpatialOS entity which is checked out, the GDK attaches a component to the ECS entity. This component is called `ComponentName.ComponentAuthority`, where `ComponentName` is the name of the SpatialOS component.

This component contains a single field, `HasAuthority`, a `bool` that indicates whether the worker instance has authority over the SpatialOS component.

> > Note that this component does not contain information about `AuthorityLossImminent` notifications.

Reviewer: Would be from the authority changes list I think

> > Note that this component does not contain information about `AuthorityLossImminent` notifications.

Author: yup you get it from the auth changes lit, I can add a bit about that

## How to interact with authority

The `ComponentAuthority` component described above is a shared component (implements `ISharedComponentData`) which allows you to filter your ECS entity queries by authority.

Below is an example of how to write a system that runs when a worker instance has authority over the `Position` SpatialOS component:

```csharp
public class AuthoritativePositionSystem : ComponentSystem
{
    private EntityQuery query;

    protected override void OnCreateManager()
    {
        base.OnCreateManager();

        query = GetEntityQuery(
            ComponentType.ReadWrite<Position.Component>(),
            ComponentType.ReadOnly<Position.ComponentAuthority>()
        );

>         query.SetFilter(Position.ComponentAuthority.Authoritative);

Reviewer: `Position.ComponentAuthority.Authoritative` is a static copy of the component with `HasAuthority = true`

>         query.SetFilter(Position.ComponentAuthority.Authoritative);

Author: under the hood, `X.ComponentAuthority.Authoritative` creates a ComponentAuthority with HasAuthority set to `true` - is it worth mentioning this explicitly?

```
public static readonly ComponentAuthority Authoritative = new ComponentAuthority(true);
```

# ECS: Authority

<%(Callout message="
Before reading this document, make sure you are familiar with:

* [Authority in SpatialOS](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/concepts/interest-authority#authority-also-known-as-write-access)
* [Understanding read and write access](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/design/understanding-access)
")%>

Authority is how SpatialOS represents which worker instances can write to a specific [SpatialOS component]({{urlRoot}}/reference/glossary#spatialos-component).

## How authority is represented

> For every [SpatialOS component]({{urlRoot}}/reference/glossary#spatialos-component) on a checked out SpatialOS entity, the GDK attaches a component to the ECS entity. This component is called `<ComponentName>.ComponentAuthority`, where `<ComponentName>` is the name of the SpatialOS component.

Reviewer 2: I know I suggested `<ComponentName>`, but on other pages I realized that we are using `{component name}`. Probably should decide which one we wanna use. I don't have a strong preference as long as it's consistent throughout the pages you touched in this PR 

Edit: just saw the remark you made somewhere else. why would the flow not work with this?

Author: changed this bit to ```, the GDK attaches a component to the ECS entity of the type `{component name}.ComponentAuthority`.```

```csharp
public class AuthoritativePositionSystem : ComponentSystem
{
    private EntityQuery query;

    protected override void OnCreate()
    {
        base.OnCreate();

        query = GetEntityQuery(
            ComponentType.ReadWrite<Position.Component>(),
            ComponentType.ReadOnly<Position.ComponentAuthority>()
        );

        // Position.ComponentAuthority.Authoritative is a static copy of the
        // Position.ComponentAuthority component with HasAuthority set to true
        query.SetFilter(Position.ComponentAuthority.Authoritative);
    }

    protected override void OnUpdate()
    {
        Entities.With(query).ForEach((ref Position.Component position) =>
        {
            // This will only run for entities for which the worker instance
            // is authoritative over the Position component.
        });
    }
}
```

## How to interact with authority changes

The `GetAuthorityChangesReceived` method on the [`ComponentUpdateSystem`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/component-update-system) allows you to retrieve a list of all the authority changes for an entity-component pair that have occured since the previous frame.

> > The list of authority changes retreived by `GetAuthorityChangesReceived` will indicate whether your authority state is either `NotAuthoritative`, `Authoritative` or `AuthorityLossImminent`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The list of authority changes retrieved by `GetAuthorityChangesReceived` indicates whether your authority state is `NotAuthoritative`, `Authoritative` or `AuthorityLossImminent`.
```

Author: this bit has been moved to a separate section at the bottom of the page
